"Jay Blades, host of BBC series The Repair Shop, has been charged with engaging in controlling and coercive behaviour against his estranged wife. The presenter faces one charge and appeared at Kidderminster Magistrates' Court on Friday. West Mercia Police said it launched an investigation after being called on 3 May. That was the day after Mr Blades' wife Lisa Zbozen posted a message on Instagram saying their marriage had ended after 18 months. In a statement, the police force said: \"Fifty-four year-old Jason Blades of Claverley in Wolverhampton has been charged with controlling and coercive behaviour. \"He appeared at Kidderminster Magistrates Court this morning (Friday 13th September) and has been bailed to appear at Worcester Crown Court on Friday 11th October.\" Mr Blades became one of the best-known faces on British TV after The Repair Shop launched in 2017, with members of the public bringing their treasured possessions and heirlooms to be fixed. It began in a daytime slot and then moved to primetime after it became a hit. The show won a National Television Award in 2023, and also won a Bafta the same year for its royal special, in which the future King took a clock and a vase to the workshop. Mr Blades was last on air on The Repair Shop on Wednesday. He has also hosted Money for Nothing, Jay Blades' Home Fix and Jay and Dom's Home Fix, and in 2022 he fronted a documentary about learning to read at the age of 51. He was honoured with an MBE in 2021. In early May, filming on the new series of The Repair Shop began without him as he said he was taking a break to \"take stock\" following the alleged murder of his uncle. Following the news of Mr Blades' court appearance, the BBC has dropped a repeat of an episode of David & Jay’s Touring Toolshed, in which Mr Blades appears with actor David Jason, from Friday's BBC One schedule. It has been replaced by a repeat of Garden Rescue. A BBC spokesperson said: \"It would not be appropriate to comment on ongoing legal proceedings.\" He has also resigned as chancellor of Buckinghamshire New University with immediate effect, the institution said. Umar Mahmood, 18, had featured in Freddie Flintoff's Field of Dreams BBC series following young cricketers. The BBC has asked the disgraced former presenter to return the £200,000 he earned after his arrest. But she warns that Jeffrey Epstein's victims didn't get closure after the 2019 Newsnight interview. His comments come after a number of former contestants made claims about their treatment on the show. It comes as the Sun reported he left after an incident with another dancer, which his representative denies."